Gummibär is a German international multilingual character and virtual band based in Berlin that performs the Gummy bear-related series of songs on various albums, including I Am Your Gummy Bear and La La Love to Dance. Its video "I'm a Gummy Bear (The Gummy Bear Song)" has over 2 billion views on YouTube.

The name 'Gummibär' is taken from a German brand of bear-shaped gum candies from Haribo introduced in 1920. The highly stylized green blue-eyed obese gelatinous bear character is usually naked except for orange Y-front briefs‌/underwear and sneakers. Gummibär also seems to be bitten with a small portion of the upper left ear missing. The bear's muzzle or, allowing for anthropomorphism, his mustache and goatee, appear to be sugar-crusted, and the character only has two small teeth spaced far apart on his lower jaw. Gummibär's right iris and pupil is greater in size than the corresponding left-sided features. In the Gummy Bear Song, the inside of Gummibär’s mouth was usually changed green to red.

Gummibär's popularity as a phenomenon is very similar to that of fellow European music phenomenon Crazy Frog, characterized by repetition of lyrics and singing of catchy melodies. Variants of the character's music have been released in various languages internationally.[1]

The related products are marketed by Gummybear International, who are responsible for the creation, development, and branding of Gummibär animations, as well as musical content and production. Merchandise includes musical and video products (CDs, DVDs, downloads and ringtones) and video games. The company is headquartered in New Jersey, United States.

In June 2012, Gummybear International gained a licensing and co-branding deal with the Greek toy manufacturer Jumbo.[citation needed]

On August 24, 2012, Gummybear International gained a licensing agreement with Brazilian record label Som Livre that includes deals on merchandising and releases on different formats.[citation needed]

The video, a 30-second CGI pop promo animated in Softimage XSI, was directed, designed and animated by Peter Dodd and produced through Wilfilm in Copenhagen for Ministry of Sound GmbH in Berlin.[citation needed] The original video was a 30-second version of the Hungarian version, "Itt Van A Gumimaci" which was posted on site Mojoflix.com.

Gummibär: I Am Gummy Bear - The Gummibär Video Collection was released on April 28, 2009 in the United States. The DVD contains a video collection of "I'm a Gummy Bear" in nine different languages, as well as some of the character's other releases.[citation needed] They promote their merch by putting it in their videos at the beginning of the music videos.
